Explain the role of one pheremone in one behavior
Pheromones are a chemical substance produced and released into the environment by an animal affecting the behaviour or physiology of other of its own species.  Although pheromones Are known to play a significant role in signalling between members of the same species among animals to affect various behaviours, it is not clear that is also true in humans. At this stage no conclusive evidence has been found to show the pheromones affect human behaviour. However, in the study Wedekind (1995), more commonly known as the “Sweaty T-shirt Study”,  suggests that MHC, a large group of genes responsible for the development of the immune system, could affect how females choose their partners. The study was a double blind  lab experiment. The study aimed to determine the role of MHC in human mate choice.
The researcher (Wedekind) assembled volunteers, 49 women and 44 men selected for their variety of MHC gene types. Men were given clean shirts to wear for 2 nights before they were returned to the scientists. The men were asked to abstain from spicy foods and other activities that would affect the smell of the shirt, in addition they were given odour free deodorants and kept the shirts in plastic bags when they weren't wearing them. The women were asked to use a nose spray 14 day before the experiment to support regeneration of the nasal membrane and prevent common colds. Each woman was given a copy of Suskind’s novel perfume to sensitize their smell perception. During the experiment seven the women were asked to rank the of 7 shirts from cardboard boxes through a smelling hole. 3 of the seven boxes contained shirts from men with similar MHC to the women's, 3 cointiend shirts from dissimilar men, the final box was an unworn shirt as a control. With each woman being alone, they were asked to score the odours from 0-10 in the criterias of intensity, pleasantness and sexiness. 
From this the researchers found the women scored malle body odours with dissimilar MHC then their own as more pleasant. Additionally, the women were noted saying odours of dissimilar MHC remind them of former mates suggesting that the experiment had high ecological validity. 
In conclusion, this study suggests that MHC could affect the human behaviour of mate selection, as women were noted to prefer scents with dissimilar MHC. However this study does not provide concrete evidence to suggest that pheromones exist among humans. 



